---
title: Lenovo Flex 5 Review
status: 'Blog'
description:
  'Just a record on my struggles and progress while learning lua, and making my first plugin for the
  overrated Neovim text editor'
readtime: '2min'
date: 'July 2nd, 2023'
tags: ['Hardware', 'Reviews']
---

Getting a computer for a budget is often a challenge for a broke college student. Many high-end and
even medium-end laptops can reach the $1k USD. However, there are good laptops out there for cheap,
its just a matter of hunting the product for the right price. Now while being in that hunt I've
originally was hunting for the Lenovo Thinkpad X1 as it was a middle ground between a laptop that
wouldn't be so old and a laptop that had decent specs. That is until one of my brothers decided to
drop my tablet of course! Really lovely to have brothers am I right? Anyway... the hunt now required
a laptop AND a tablet, and prices for a decent Samsung tablet where I can take notes were high. And
ipads were not getting any cheap, even the older gen ones. Fortunately I'm near my last or so
college year and only one course would somewhat require me to take notes and do lots of math, still
really sucks. That's until I found the Lenovo Flex 5.

I've been using for the past month or so and I can say the price is worth paying. At about $699 USD
at the time (went to check the price and I found prices as low as $474 USD in Ebay) you get a
mid-range gaming laptop with a touch screen, a pen to take notes in tablet mode (and my tablet is
replaced yay), and decent battery life at 7 hours while browsing and around 3-4 hours while playing
Curse of the Dead Gods at med settings. It comes with a footprint detector, tho I haven't really
tried it. The laptop comes with some good perks... and some bad.

## The Good

One of the greatest things this laptop has is the AMD Radeon Graphics it comes with. For me this is
a game changer as my previous laptops has always been Intel integrated graphics card, which are
well, not the best. With this huge upgrade I was able to play Game Cube games with no issue! I was
also able to play Fortnite at 60FPS and Fall Guys ran smoothly with absolute no hassle. Really
astonished at the performance. Even managed to run a VM while having several browser tabs open and
VScode without any issues.

The keyboard is also pretty good. It doesn't feel cheap but also doesn't have that awkward clickily
feel like modern Macbooks. I know there are people who really like that feel, but for me it feels
weird and often throws me out. So take the keyboard part as a matter of taste and don't let my bias
affect your choice. Another neat feature is the built-in webcam shutter. Gone are the days I would
have to put some tape on the webcam and remove it every time I have to enter to a college meeting.
Then there's the trackpad. Its OK, its not as great as the XPS trackpad, but is not terrible nor
feels cheap in any way. Its just has a bit more friction than the XPS trackpad. I think the Flex 5
trackpad is a tiny bit larger than the XPS. If it was the same size and the ribbon connector were
the same I'd most likely swap it. The laptop is pretty light, weighting a measly 2.26kg (5lbs for
Americans). Speakers are also average. Their loud enough and I couldn't hear any distortion, a bit
better than the XPS speakers.

## The Bad

So despite the many good perks this laptop has, it also comes with bad. First is that the USB-C is
only for charging, bummer. The material is plastic, a big downgrade from my older, Dell XPS laptop
whose chassis is aluminum and carbon fiber. The second downgrade is the hinges. I don't know why but
mine are more loose than why I would expect. Compared to the hinges on my XPS it feels too flimsy.
While searching for apps for drawing and note taking I tried to use Krita. Not sure if its a driver
issue but I had lots of weird bugs where the pen pointer was a few inches from where I was pressing.
It didn't happened when I run Krita in Admin mode. That said, I sometimes got weird artifacts in
other apps like Microsoft Whiteboard. Not the greatest experience, but I was able to take random
notes to test it out.

## Final thoughts

For $699 USD I think its worth the price mostly for the versatility. And now that the price is going
lower its a good opportunity for broke college students to get a decent laptop for note taking,
light gaming and programming. I give a...

### 7/10
